README.md, before:

# pyGandalf

## a **G**eometric, **A**nimation, **N**eural, **D**irected, **A**lgorithmic, **L**earning **F**ramework

Incorporating Geometric algebra and Animation for advanced computer graphics, Neural visual computing for GPU-based application development, using Directed acyclic graphs for efficient structure, focused on Algorithmic solutions, dedicated to Learning through an open-source Framework that leverages Entities, Components, Systems in a Shader-based Scenegraph environment using latest CG GPU-accelerated APIs.

![concept of pyGandalf][def]

[def]: ./data/images/pygandalf1.png

Copyright (c) 2024, University of Crete, Greece & ICS-FORTH, Greece

## Introduction

pyGandalf is a Python-based framework for computer graphics, visual computing in an entity-components-systems (ECS) approach. It is designed to be a flexible, modular, and extensible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications. It is built on top of modern graphics APIs such as OpenGL and webGPU, with an emphasis on learning, teaching and understanding of key discipline concepts.

## Features

- **Geometric algebra**: pyGandalf incorporates the use of geometric algebra for advanced computer graphics. This allows for the use of geometric algebra in the development of computer graphics applications, and provides a powerful and flexible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications.
- **Animation**: pyGandalf provides a powerful and flexible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications. It is designed to be easy to use and easy to extend. It is designed to be a flexible, modular, and extensible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications. It is built on top of modern graphics APIs such as OpenGL, and webGPU and is designed to be easy to use and easy to extend.
- **Neural computing**: pyGandalf provides a powerful and flexible framework for further developing advanced deep learning for computer graphics applications.
- **Directed acyclic graphs**:  An Entity-Component-System (ECS) architecture is used to organize the data and functionality of the application into a directed acyclic graph. This allows for efficient structure and organization of the application, and provides a powerful and flexible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications.
- **Algorithmic solutions**: Several algorithms are provided for advanced computer graphics applications. These algorithms are designed to be easy to use and easy to extend, and are built on top of modern graphics APIs such as OpenGL, and webGPU.
- **Learning**: Emphasis is given to learning through an open-source framework that leverages Entities, Components, Systems in a Shader-based Scenegraph environment using latest CG APIs.

## Installation

TBD

## Usage

TBD

## Documentation

TBD

## License

Apache 2.0 License (see LICENSE file)

## Contributors

- [George Papagiannakis](https://george.papagiannakis.org)
- [Gianis Petropoulos](TBD)
- [Stratos Geronikolakis](TBD)
- [Manos Kamarianakis](TBD)
- [Antonis Protopsaltis](TBD)

Commit message:

Added main framework code from toy project.
- Set up project using pdm.

README.md, after:

# pyGandalf

## a **G**eometric, **A**nimation, **N**eural, **D**irected, **A**lgorithmic, **L**earning **F**ramework

Incorporating Geometric algebra and Animation for advanced computer graphics, Neural visual computing for GPU-based application development, using Directed acyclic graphs for efficient structure, focused on Algorithmic solutions, dedicated to Learning through an open-source Framework that leverages Entities, Components, Systems in a Shader-based Scenegraph environment using latest CG GPU-accelerated APIs.

![concept of pyGandalf][def]

[def]: ./data/images/pygandalf1.png

Copyright (c) 2024, University of Crete, Greece & ICS-FORTH, Greece

## Introduction

pyGandalf is a Python-based framework for computer graphics, visual computing in an entity-components-systems (ECS) approach. It is designed to be a flexible, modular, and extensible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications. It is built on top of modern graphics APIs such as OpenGL and WebGPU, with an emphasis on learning, teaching and understanding of key discipline concepts.

## Features

- **Geometric algebra**: pyGandalf incorporates the use of geometric algebra for advanced computer graphics. This allows for the use of geometric algebra in the development of computer graphics applications, and provides a powerful and flexible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications.
- **Animation**: pyGandalf provides a powerful and flexible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications. It is designed to be easy to use and easy to extend. It is designed to be a flexible, modular, and extensible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications. It is built on top of modern graphics APIs such as OpenGL, and WebGPU and is designed to be easy to use and easy to extend.
- **Neural computing**: pyGandalf provides a powerful and flexible framework for further developing advanced deep learning for computer graphics applications.
- **Directed acyclic graphs**:  An Entity-Component-System (ECS) architecture is used to organize the data and functionality of the application into a directed acyclic graph. This allows for efficient structure and organization of the application, and provides a powerful and flexible framework for developing advanced computer graphics applications.
- **Algorithmic solutions**: Several algorithms are provided for advanced computer graphics applications. These algorithms are designed to be easy to use and easy to extend, and are built on top of modern graphics APIs such as OpenGL, and WebGPU.
- **Learning**: Emphasis is given to learning through an open-source framework that leverages Entities, Components, Systems in a Shader-based Scenegraph environment using latest CG APIs.

## Installation

- Install [pdm](https://pdm-project.org/latest/)
- Install dependecies: ```pdm install```
- Select the interpreter: ```pdm use -f .venv```
- Activate the environment:
    - Powershell: ```Invoke-Expression (pdm venv activate in-project)```
    - Bash/csh/zsh: ```eval $(pdm venv activate in-project)```
    - Fish: ```eval (pdm venv activate in-project)```

## Usage

TBD

## Documentation

TBD

## License

Apache 2.0 License (see LICENSE file)

## Contributors

- [George Papagiannakis](https://george.papagiannakis.org)
- [John Petropoulos](TBD)
- [Stratos Geronikolakis](TBD)
- [Manos Kamarianakis](TBD)
- [Antonis Protopsaltis](TBD)
